Previously, I spoke about
dense and ReLU layers.
There are two other layers
I want to introduce you to.
Embedding, and mean layers.
These will come in
handy. Let's dive in.
Going forward, I will introduce
embedding layers and
explain why you'll need to
include layers such
as the mean layer in
serial models directly
after your embedding layer.
Let's now dive into
the embedding layer.
In NLP, you usually have
a set of unique words
called the vocabulary.
An embedding layer
takes an index
assigned to each word
from your vocabulary,
and maps it to a representation
of that word with a
determined dimension.
In this example, embedding
of size equal to 2.
For instance, the embedding
layer in this example will
return a vector equal to 0.020,
and 0.006 for the word I.
And negative 0.009 and
0.050 for the word NLP.
Every value from this parts
of the table is trainable.
When using an embedding
layer in your model,
you'll learn the representation
that gives the best
performance for your NLP task.
For the embedding
layer in your model,
you'd have to learn a
matrix of weights of size
equal to your vocabulary times
the dimension of the embedding.
The size of the
embedding could be
treated as a hyperparameter
in your model.
With this layer, your
model can learn or
improve the word embeddings
for your NLP task,
like it improves the weight
matrices on each layer.
The embedding layer is able
to map words to embeddings.
If you had a series of words
like a tweet that
says, "I'm happy",
the embedding layer
will map each of
those words to their
corresponding embedding,
and return a matrix
of word embeddings.
If you had padded vectors
representing your tweets,
you could unroll
this matrix and feed
its values to the next layer
on the neural network.
But in doing this, you might
end up with a lot of
parameters to train.
As an alternative,
you could just
take the mean of each
feature from the embedding,
and that's exactly what
the mean layer does.
After the mean layer you'll
have the same number
of features as your
embedding sites,
even for sequences of
texts that are very long.
Note that this
layer doesn't have
any trainable
parameters because it's
only computing the mean
of the word embeddings.
At this point you're
familiar with what
embedding layers and mean
layers are, and how they work.
An important takeaway
here is that using
an embedding layer in
your model allows you to
learn a good representation of
your vocabulary for the specific
task you're working on.
As the mean layer takes a
matrix of embeddings and
returns a vector representation
for a set of words like tweets.
You have four layers
in your toolkit.
Dense, ReLU,
embedding, and mean.
These are more than enough
to lay the foundations
for you to start building
your own neural network.